<meta name='keywords' content='cucumber-extensions, cucumber scenario parallelization, cucumber feature parallelization, cucumber parallel scenario runner, cucumber parallel feature runner, speedup cucumber execution, supercucumber'>
<!--
  Title: Parallelizing cucumber scenario execution
  Description: A Gradle plugin to help executing cucumber scenarios or features in parallel.
  Author: Sreedhar Puttagunta
-->

# Parallelization
> This can be done in two ways with the help of the plugin code of this repo. One of the ways is to
parallelizing features and other being parallelizing scenarios. The task, which can be used for this
purpose is,
<pre>CucumberJUnitTestRunner</pre>
> This task is responsible for preparing necessary infrastructure which will be used by gradle's test
task to parallelize the execution.
### How?
> The consumer should have a *test* task which should depend on the task, `junitTestRunner`
which is available in the plugin and which is of type, `CucumberJUnitTestRunner` or have
a task of type `CucumberJUnitTestRunner` in your gradle, which should in turn be a
dependent task of the *test* task.
###### input
> input for this task is given through an extension closure which will be an input for the other task
in the plugin of type, `CucumberTask` or the task, `cucumberTask`. Properties of `cucumberExtensions`
closure are as follows.
<pre>
stepDefinitionsPath 'com.example.stepdefs'
featuresPath 'src/test/resources/com/example'
tags '@WIP'
parallelize ParallelizeOptions.PARALLELIZE_OPTIONS.SCENARIOS
browser 'chrome'
</pre>

###### In order to use this plugin, make sure you have the following in your build.gradle
```
apply plugin: 'supercucumber'

import com.cucumbergoodies.selenium.plugin.ParallelizeOptions
import com.cucumbergoodies.selenium.plugin.tasks.CucumberJUnitTestRunner

buildscript {
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
    dependencies {
        classpath 'com.cucumbergoodies.seleium:cucumber-extensions:1.0'
    }
}

task supercucumber(type: CucumberJUnitTestRunner) {
	cucumberExtensions {
		stepDefinitionsPath 'com.example.stepdefs'
		featuresPath 'src/test/resources/com/example'
		tags tagsProp
		parallelize ParallelizeOptions.PARALLELIZE_OPTIONS.SCENARIOS
		browser 'chrome'
	}
}

test.dependsOn supercucumber
test.followedBy mergeReports

test {
    maxParallelForks = Integer.parseInt(String.valueOf(System.properties.get('maxParallelForks')))
    forkEvery = 1
}
```
###### Reports
> The task, `mergeReports` combines the all the json files generated by the cucumber runtime. This
also combines all the junit xmls generated by the runtime. Hence this should be last action after
all the tests are run. One of stages where you could call this as a finalizer of test task. If you
have any utility that generates a report out of these json files, you should call, `mergeReports`
before calling that task.